_CEN3031 - Intro to Software Engineering_  
_Spring 2022_

# Sprint 0 Retrospective - Group 3

- **[Brian Hoblin](https://github.com/GoonerBrian)**, _SCRUM Master/Developer_
- **[Alejandro Capellan](https://github.com/acapellan)**, _Project Manager/Developer_
- **[Jacob Boney](https://github.com/jacobboney)**, _Developer_
- **[Steven DeLoach](https://github.com/sfdeloach)**, _Developer_

## Used inputs and activities to establish common ground

Our team decided to use the visual collaboration platform Mural (www.mural.co). We logged on to
Microsoft Teams and met via video conference using Mural at the same time to facilitate our
retrospective meeting. The Scrum Master created a custom board to attach digital post-it notes into
three columns:

- What went well?
- What didn’t go well?
- Where can we improve?

Each team member brought ideas to post in each of these respective columns, but members did not
share these opinions before our meeting. The Scrum Master established ground rules to allow five
minutes to post our thoughts on the board. We anonymized our cursors so team members would not know
the author of the messages. The Scrum Master also encouraged us to post every one of our thoughts,
even if another member had already posted a similar message.

After the round of posting our notes, the Scrum Master led a discussion where each post-it note was
discussed one-by-one and each member was offered an opportunity to discuss and further elaborate if
they desired. As the Scrum Master led the discussion, the team agreed on which notes belonged to a
common theme. Next, the Scrum Master drew boxes to group these items into common themes. The team
found that some themes were related to more than one pre-defined column.

The team agreed to give each member five votes to vote on a grouping. Votes were assigned to a
grouping and not an individual post-it note. This was decided because there were three unique
groupings in any given column at most. Therefore, five votes would require members to vote on items
in at least two columns.

A round of voting was held, and the team discussed the results before forming action items.

## Worked well reflection

Our team was able to identify 13 instances of things we felt worked well for us during Sprint 0. We
then went around the group to discuss and elaborate on each of those 13 instances. From that
discussion we were able to identify 3 general groups that encompassed our overall sentiments on what
went well during Sprint 0.

The first group we identified was tool choices. We are fortunate to have a team with diverse
backgrounds. This allowed us to consider several tools, frameworks, languages, etc., that we could
utilize for this project. Team members were able to bring forward tools they had previously used,
how they could be used with tools suggested by other team members, and the team was able to find
consensus.

The second group identified was teamwork. Although the team has a diverse background, we found that
each team member was familiar with the expectations and realities of professional working
environments. We have yet to have an issue of individual ego distracting the team from achieving
program success. Each team member has a different schedule and we have been able to collectively
step up when needed.

The final group we identified was daily scrum. Due to our various schedules, we are not able to have
a traditional scrum meeting daily. To compensate for this, we created a Scrum channel in our Slack
group with a daily reminder to update the group on our individual statuses, blockers that have been
encountered, etc. Team members are asked to pay closer attention to the Scrum channel during a
2–3-hour window each day so that the entire team is current.

## Didn’t work well reflection

The next section we tackled was what did not go well in Sprint 0. As a team, we were able to produce
9 areas where we ran into issues. Similarly, to the prior section, we then discussed each topic and
organized them into 5 main groups. These groups include setup issues, sprint length, effort
coordination, project scope, and difficulties with assignment requirements.

Our _Setup Issues_ primarily revolved around the set up and configuration of our GitHub repository.
While the frequency of repository updates was a positive trait in our group, it brought about the
issue of merge conflicts and reviews. After some communication with all members, we were able to
come to an agreement on the number of required reviews as well as how to orchestrate our concurrent
development.

_Sprint Lengths_ is an issue, also mentioned in the next section, that caused a bit of uncertainty
in the execution of our sprints both present and future. The unclear or lack of information
regarding the amount of time we are given resulted in our team making assumptions so that we could
estimate what tasks we would be able to accomplish.

All members of our team are passionate about our project, and this is evident when deciding on which
tools or services to use in development and subsequent _Effort Coordination_. Unfortunately, this
can sometimes be overwhelming to some of the other members who may also have thoughts on the
direction of development. To remedy this, we collectively decided to listen to the input of all
members as well as offer constructive criticism if another member disagrees.

_Project Scope_ is yet another issue brought up in the next section and is also a result of our
enthusiasm. Everyone has big ideas for our project and that is evident in the number of features
added to our backlog. This size of our backlog can be overwhelming at times and the thought of
developing certain features can seem daunting. The cause of this can be attributed to losing sight
of the scope of some user stories. The way that we handled this issue was by breaking these
intimidating features into more manageable tasks. From there we were able to better construct a plan
on how to approach the development of those features.

Finally, the last issue we had was _Difficulty with Assignment Requirements_. As a group, we would
sometimes struggle to interpret what needed to be included in our deliverables. This caused our
group to engage in discussions that sapped time that could have otherwise been spent working on the
assignment. By individually reviewing all material related to the assignment prior to meeting we
were able to enter our group meetings prepared to begin working on our assignments.

## Plan for improvement reflection

Once our team completed identifying our insights from Sprint 0, we discussed the actions that we
felt needed to be completed during Sprint 1. We arrived at seven actions that were conducive to our
success during the next sprint and would address our concerns. Two of these actions were assigned to
all members of the team with the aim of making our efforts during Sprint 1 more efficient. While the
five were assigned to individual members per their assigned responsibilities to the project.

_Action 1_ was assigned to the team after a discussion about the complexity of our project. Our team
mutually agreed to adhere to the scope that we decided upon during our sprint planning phase, which
aimed to produce a prototype. This would ensure that we are able to produce a working prototype by
the end of the sprint and begin to refine our product.

_Action 2_ was self-assigned by our Scrum Master to refine the start and end dates of our Sprint to
more closely fall between the assignment due dates. This would ensure that our sprint timelines do
not run shorter or longer than the assignment due dates, potentially creating varying lengths for
our sprints.

_Action 3_ was assigned to the member in charge of database development, since it was suggested that
using MongoDB would improve the feasibility of implementing some features of our database within the
allotted sprint timeline. The member will be using online learning tools and examples to implement
the database features planned for our sprint 1.

_Action 4_ was assigned to the member in charge of implementing the front end of our project, since
it was mentioned that using Bootswatch may be too complex and time consuming to implement within our
sprint 1 timeline. Our group decided that the best course of action would involve determining its
complexity within the first few days of the sprint and should it be too involved then implement
standard Bootstrap.

_Action 5_ was assigned to one of our members after a discussion where the team was unsure of how
Bootswatch could be implemented with a react frontend. Furthermore, the team was unsure of the
complexity behind accomplishing this implementation and wanted to determine whether it was feasible
to plan to complete it within sprint 1.

_Action 6_ was suggested as a means of organizing the various resources that our team has found –
and will likely find – during our sprint 1 timeline. By sharing resources in one location,
development should become more efficient, and it will be easier to reference any materials during
our meetings.

_Action 7_, as mentioned previously, is one of the two actions that was assigned to the overall
group. This action is something to keep in mind while developing during the sprint 1 timeline and
will be discussed as we approach the end of the sprint. Our team is unsure about the complexity of
the project and whether it can be completed within the course timeline. However, as we begin to
implement features and produce a working prototype, we plan to adapt and reach a consensus on this
action.

Once our team thoroughly discussed the above actions, we closed the retrospective and plan to begin
working on our assigned stories for sprint 1. Throughout the sprint, our team will follow up on the
steps taken to close each action in our daily stand-ups.
